Christopher Simpson author of science of
coercion thank you for joining us hello
in your book you describe the influences
on communications studies or
communications research what are the
practical definitions of these terms
well these are programs that train
people who might be called the
ideological workers of u.s. society
people they train journalists they train
public opinion specialists public you
know public relations types advertising
and so on there's a body of scientific
or somewhat scientific techniques that
ideological workers use and and
communication research is what it's
called within the university did you
give a bit more of a definition of what
an ideological worker is well I'm not
using the determined some great
scientific sense I simply mean a person
whose job it is articulating and
influencing ideology in his or her
society and in our present conversation
we're talking mainly about the United
States journalist TV journalist the
columnist on the op-ed page of the
papers one can speak more broadly and
and draw in you know politicians and
ministers and so on but but I'm looking
mainly at mass media type people and you
also talk about the various ways that
the United States government itself has
affected the way these fields of study
have progressed tell us about some of
the government-sponsored communications
programs or projects right well what the
book does is it goes I went through
classified records that I got from the
National Archives and and through the
Freedom of Information Act and
documented how government intelligence
and military agencies had basically Bank
the creation of this particular field of
sociology and and helped it get set up
with think tanks and specialists
research institutions and so on and
examples of this included like for there
was a very interesting example in the
mid-1950s where the Air Force bankrolled
a program to drop leaflets on remote
American communities and the leaflets
said this could have been a bomb the
Soviet Union may might be attacking your
neighborhood with atomic weapons and the
the function of this test was on its
surface anyway was to study the
dispersion of messages in a population
right I mean if a message comes out like
say an advertisement or a political
message whatever it is how does that get
spread through a population let me just
you know point out that in your book you
have a sort of a likeness of that which
was dropped I guess it's a just a
miniaturization of that flyer that was
dropped it goes and this could have been
a bomb invasion by air as possible early
detection of approaching aircraft is our
only defense then you have its bottom
contact your filter center today and
learn how you can help this program what
what is this just a maca was there
actually a place that people can be in
contact they could actually contact it
this was part of the civil defense
effort of the 1950s it was underwritten
this particular project was underwritten
mainly by the Air Force now so as I was
saying a moment ago the the the first
layer of this is the scientific or the
pseudo scientific effort to learn how
messages travel through a population
okay
then the next layer is also very
interesting the time at which these
leaflets were dropped was the height of
the so-called
bomber gap scare and those of your
listeners who attract cold war stuff
and/or you know remember the bomber gap
in the 1950s this was a big o publicity
blip the publicity crisis really where
the airforce convinced put out a lot of
publicity to the effect that the
Russians had bombers and they were gonna
you know outstrip our military
capability and the only solution to this
problem was to spend billions of dollars
on designing new bombers and new atomic
weapons and so forth and so on and
looking back today even you know very
moderate historians agree that the
bomber cap was manufactured it was it
was a made-up thing to to Goose the
airforce budget you know the Air Force
was worried it was going to lose funding
so it came up with this bomber cap
alright well here you have a propaganda
program essentially dropping tens of
millions of leaflets all over the
Pacific Northwest saying this could have
been a bomb and list now be part of the
fight against the Soviet bombers blowing
up your family now what sort of effect
do you think of that had on the public
debate over whether or not there was a
bomber gap and this is particularly at a
time by the way with the actual
statistics about the bombers and you
know whether what the Soviets were
developing or not developing and so
forth this was all classified and so it
you know when people would say what are
what's what's the true story about the
bomber gap the Air Force would say well
you just have to trust us on this one
the point being is that most of these
programs that that were intended to
explore concepts of how do you
manipulate people through the media they
both had that had sort of a scientific
aspect to him and they had a publicity
aspect to them where they would try to
promote a particular point of view about
America the world about how the world
works before we are speaking with
Christopher Simpson is the author most
recently of science of coercion
communication research and psychological
warfare 1945 to 1960 a compelling book
christopher simpson is he is nothing
less than dynamite dynamite his earlier
books splendid blonde beast came out
last year terrific book and you some of
you may know blowback about tracking the
Nazis Nazis in the United States the way
US government hire the Nazis brought him
into this country
Christopher Simpson let's talk about one
of the fundamental architects of this
program that you're outlining that you
talk about in your book Wilbur Schramm
tell us about Wilbur Schramm his
politics his association with the US
government his influence on
communications what did he do that made
him so influential right right well the
first thing to understand in looking at
Wilbur Schramm is that you know as one
person he's just one person like
everybody else in a certain sense he's
not like you know so much smarter than
everyone else what he is the the the
reason I explained his career in the
book is that he's a case study of how
ideology works in the universities and
how almost without noticing it the
university's first of all for their
professors and students propagate
particular ideas and worldviews
methods of approaching the world okay
that's number one
then the interesting thing that follows
is this is that the next generation
accept those preconceptions as though
they were facts and then builds upon
that a new layer of preconceptions and
so on through the generations until such
time as the preconceptions you know to
look at it from the outside if you don't
make a systematic study of it well that
looks like it's really true you know it
looks like it's really fact somebody
says now I'll give you an example how
widespread do you think it is the the
attitude that people in third world
countries are violent and brutal and not
not very well informed savage ignorant
right exactly right this is extremely
widespread point of view it's based upon
ignorance but it's ignorant that has
been manufactured it's ignorant that has
grown up over the years largely for
political and economic reasons and I'll
show you I'll give an example of how
this part of how this happened coming
out of World War two psychological
warfare was the sort of big hot thing
for the US government you know how the
government goes through fads and there's
you know SDI was the big hot thing in
the Reagan administration
well psychological warfare was a big
thing in the Truman administration and
the idea was that by using by cleverly
using mass media and dirty tricks and so
forth the US government could extend its
influence and also establish a stability
of sorts around the world much more
broadly than it could do if all it had
to rely on were soldiers and guns follow
me
by convincing people the
that the the us approach was the right
approach well then you wouldn't need
soldiers to go in and force them to
accept the u.s. approach all right those
programs were called psychological
warfare right very it's almost a naive
presentation you know it's rather
straightforward as to what the
government had in mind now going into
the early nineteen fifties they
discovered that oops calling it
psychological warfare was kind of kind
of productive because people in foreign
countries would look at its wall I don't
want people to psychologically make war
on me so you know so so that when the US
was talking about its psychological
warfare programs it was actually
undermining its own program one of these
guys who was very much involved in these
efforts was Leo Bogart who's still
around he's still writing and wrote in a
report to the u.s. Information Agency
well talking about psychological warfare
in public it's a little bit like talking
about the techniques for seducing a
woman in front of the woman that you
have just seduced now you know the
sexist undertone there is obvious but
you get the point is is that talking
about it undermines so what happened
well the rhetoric change without
changing the essence of what was going
on the books that were in say 1950 about
psychological warfare began to be called
books about international communication
and that the name psychological warfare
which at least had the virtue of being
honest and straightforward that was
dumped the name propaganda that was
dumped but now it became international
communication and international
communications that was obviously of
great interest to us
national security agencies you write in
your book about Wilbur Schramm who
you've been just talking a little bit
about you write some important SRAM
writings from the 1950s concerning
communication remain inaccessible today
because they were prepared in connection
with CIA and military sponsored
psychological warfare projects and that
the government insists must remain
secret more than 30 years later what is
so dangerous what do they need to keep
secret well I think in the particular
case of the SRAM studies that's mainly
BS and that it's it's more sort of a
knee-jerk secrecy I don't from what I've
been able to determine and I've looked
at trans career very closely there isn't
like some key to a code that's out there
in a government file what what this is
about is ideology what this is about is
how the state and the cultural apparatus
in general manufacture preconception now
you know I was talking about
international communication just a
moment ago if you go to any major
university in the United States UC
Berkeley for example has a large program
Stanford just on the peninsula there has
a large program that's where SRAM ended
up by the way is that Stanford you
you're not gonna find courses or you
can't get a degree anymore in propaganda
right I mean that would be embarrassing
but you can bet that you'll get a degree
in international communication the
techniques that you learn the texts that
you read the professors that you hear
for the most part are saying very much
the same sorts of things that used to be
taught as propaganda and psychological
warfare but now they have a new name and
the new name conceals or tends to
conceal the actual ideological
underpinnings of the activity because
it's not I mean everybody knows that
propaganda is kind of stinky right I
mean that's that's that's ones first
response but international communication
well--that's phone sophisticated that
sounds like it might even be a good idea
I mean heaven knows we need
international communication the world
would be a better place we had better
international communication but so you
get the point is is that here you have
government financed programs that are
are explicitly intelligence and
propaganda programs and why are they
explicit well otherwise they can't get
it through the Congress you know
Congress is very suspicious of how the
government spends its money so you know
the USIA puts the US information agency
puts forward a plan this this and this
are the things we need to study in order
to more effectively manipulate people
abroad same deal with the CIA although
obviously there's much more
classification that money gets spent
establishing think tanks and university
programs and underwriting professors
salaries that are identified in some
detail in the book those people write
books that explain ideas about
communication and those ideas in turn
become the beginning of preconceptions
about how communication works now
Schramm finally come around to the
answer your question of about five
minutes ago
Schramm more than probably any other
person articulated these preconceptions
he was very good at sort of putting them
down on a page and and laying them out
and some of them will be familiar to
your readers or to your listeners rather
you know I'm sure you've heard many
times about well you you have
authoritarian governments that's like
Pinochet or Marcos or or you know name
the dictator and then you have
totalitarian governments which is like
the Soviet Union supposedly or or
Eastern Europe or Czechoslovakia and the
totalitarian governments are supposed to
be so much worse than the authoritarian
ones that it's worth risking nuclear war
or conducting nuclear war to fight them
well that distinction between
totalitarian and authoritarian is most
political scientists will will tell you
if they thought about it it's
manufactured it's bogus
love that didn't she oh yeah that Jeanne
Kirkpatrick build a career on
propagating that idea what the idea
lacks in factuality it more than makes
up in its political usefulness it's a
very politically useful idea at least in
the United States and so Wilbur Schramm
would be the Georgia of Kennin of the
communications field I suppose if you've
just joined us we are speaking with
Christopher Simpson the author of
science of coercion communication
research in psychological warfare 1945
to 1960 an exceptional small book - it's
an easy read but really quite a
remarkable piece of work Christopher
Simpson but what you're describing is it
sounds to me as if it's
government-sponsored
undermining of the open society and also
a very sophisticated
government-sponsored mind control game
being directed at this ultimately at the
citizens of the United States but what
are the practical effects of such
government influence on the way
journalists or others in communications
do their work right well a couple
different practical effects one is in
the training process what is taken to be
truth about communication about people
and so on and the most basic thing is
that it is taken to be truth the
communication consists of
some power at the center broadcasting
out and telling other people what to do
and that power the center could be like
a newspaper like the Washington Post
could be a radio station television
station whatever all these have this
very similar design into their
communication pattern you have a central
broadcasting point that propagates what
its view of the world is now that is a
very basic attitude about communication
and it's not that the that that
presentation is untrue what the problem
with that is is it takes all
communication of any sort and reduces it
to that form or that type or that
particular little narrow slice of
communication that is most useful to big
business and to the state if you think
back what is communication where does
this word come from well it's a simpler
word to community or commune or
communion so forth all of these concepts
and this is like rooted in in the
English language
talk about a two-way process a
consensual process a process that
involves listening as well as speaking
that communal aspect of communication
has been gutted to the point that it's
virtually non-existent in modern society
and what is substituted for it is a
particular type of commercial relations
in which advertising and
mass-produced goods substitute
themselves for human relationship you
know and and if I was if I was as good a
author as as you were kind enough to say
I would be able to find some method -
right now in our discussion have a more
two-way discussion with your audience
right now Pacifica Radio does a pretty
good job of involving the community and
allowing people on the air and and so
forth and so on certainly much better
than the network's do but still this
problem seems to be built into modern
communication forms and we are speaking
with signs of coercion speaking of
modern communication science of coercion
communication research and psychological
warfare in 1945 to 1960 we are speaking
with Christopher Simpson and just stay
on this subject for a moment more I'm
really
now curious to know given this kind of
policy this kind of government-sponsored
program it would seem to me that they
would spend a lot of time attempting to
directly infiltrate the media if you
will create exemplary figures at the New
York Times The Washington Post ABC of
people who can set the tone who can make
sure that this kind of pro-us journalism
exists yes that's true
and that certainly took place the the
you can look at the history of CBS for
example during particularly the 1950s
where a lot of the records are now open
and and you can see there was a very
systematic effort to place people with
an intelligence background in the mass
media to to cultivate particular sources
and so on I went to a
a talk by Seymour Hersh not long ago
Seymour Hersh is a well-known and very
talented investigative reporter anyway
he was talking about his experience at
the New York Times where during the
early seventies Hirsch wrote for the
foreign desk and how the office wasn't
all that big and he was across the desk
from a man who was at that stage the The
Times chief diplomatic correspondent and
every day at four o'clock the phone
would ring and who would be on the line
but Henry Kissinger and they would sit
down and literally talk through the
foreign policy developments of the day
so that the Times would have it's an
appropriate pin on the news Ted Koppel
says his idol is Henry Kissinger and if
you look at the fair study Henry
Kissinger I think was the most welcomed
most frequent guest on Nightline right
right well there's another level to this
particular story is that there was some
crisis in the early 70s and the foreign
the foreign court the chief diplomatic
correspondent called up somebody else in
the bureaucracy the Secretary of Defense
or somebody and was telling his boss who
was the next layer of editor up up the
line that he had done so and this was
what the Secretary of Defense that said
and so on and so on and that that boss
said oh my god don't tell Henry that
you've done this he won't talk to us
right it's because Henry you know what
it would feel you know he would feel
slighted in a you know some
interpersonal sense by this okay so
anyway yeah sure the government does
cultivate the media and and very
systematically in a relatively
sophisticated fashion you think there is
anybody now writing in the media
in the press oh I don't know how in the
Washington Post some have suspected Bob
Woodward if you will well I don't know
it see this here's the thing I don't
think that this is so simple as oh I'm
speaking hypothetically now oh that the
CIA meets with Bob Woodward and gives
him a secret decoder ring you know and a
paycheck and and then he follows orders
from Langley that's not the way it works
the government is much more of a tool
here than a director the government is
more subject to the economic forces that
shapes the body then some kind of
dictator or all-controlling force an
example right in in this particular
field the big way that these
intelligence and propaganda programs
influenced daily life ordinary people's
lives is not through spy stuff it's
through developing techniques that the
commercial companies could use to
monitor and to sell their services both
in the US and abroad and let me let me
explain for a minute what I have in mind
here is that in a consumer society how
does it work or how does part of it work
well part of it works like this is the
mass media sells the attention of
audiences to advertisers right go look
at Advertising Age which is a trade
publication in the advertising industry
they don't talk about how much you know
people like to watch 60 minutes or Ted
Koppel or something like that what they
talk about is if you mister advertiser
at Procter & Gamble or wherever you are
give us money we will deliver for you 20
million eyeballs that have such
such economic characteristics such and
such demographic racial ethnic
characteristics and so on and then the
advertising advertiser sits down and
says okay well I want to sell
automobiles I want to sell chewing gum I
want to sell B or whatever it is or I
want to sell a candidate and here is the
audience that's best for me and so okay
here's here's some money for the mass
media and I thought ah that's healthy
that's where the advertisers come from
and that in turn is what under writes
the budget of nccps local television and
so forth and so on including the news
budget and of course one of the largest
advertisers in the United States is the
United States government itself with its
various programs including the advocacy
of joining the military for service if
you've just joined us we are speaking
with Christopher Simpson he is the owner
of science of Coors and communication
research in psychological warfare 1945
1960 we're talking essentially about the
shaping of communications including
journalism in the United States
Christopher Simpson I guess I want to
ask you a broad question here what are
the consequences of exactly this sort of
thing for democracy I think it
undermines democracy I think it
undermines democracy in a couple
different ways one is as it provides
very powerful tools to forces in society
that are largely anti-democratic um the
intelligence agencies propaganda
agencies the military big business and
so on it strengthens their hands in
their efforts to control the process of
ideology in opinion formation in our
country now their control over this
process is not absolute they don't have
a free ride they have to struggle they
spent billions of dollars on the effort
of trying to get enough people to think
the way they want them to think in order
to hold this leaky ship together
these particular tools are powerful
tools and help them to do it more than
that the tool except to specialists in
the field the tools are typically
transparent right you watch television
most the time in particularly if you
watch a lot of television you don't
really see gee there they're pulling my
chain you know I mean it takes on a
certain life of its own that appears to
be reality it appears to be sensible you
might like or dislike Ted Koppel or Dan
Rather or any of the rest of them but
they appear to be pretty reasonable guys
at least in the you know in the
superficial sense of length so first
thing that's that's anti-democratic as
it gives these forces powerful tools and
the tools tend to be particularly
powerful in third world countries where
while people are more sophisticated
about the u.s. role in the world that
Americans typically are they're not
necessarily as exposed to media or has
you know been exposed as long to media
as Americans have so these kind of tools
are are very important for pushing a
particular form of capitalism at home in
a broad second way these tools are
fundamentally antique diversity they're
fundamentally intolerant now that that's
a tricky question there and here's the
thing I mean you know you can walk into
a record store you can buy reggae music
and you can buy
no tie kamalii and music and so forth
and so on and so so an argument could be
made as well she doesn't actually
encourage diversity and in a certain
sense it encourages diversity it
encourages diversity and somewhat the
same fact that the Catholic Church can
coexist a quote unquote
with native religions say in Africa the
church will go in there and adopt some
of the pageantry some of the practices
even you know try to to let people have
some of the same religious practices
they had prior to Christianity but that
pageantry that costuming must be
strictly subordinated to Catholic or
Christian ideology and if it's not then
frankly what the native peoples are
looking at is genocide at the hands of
the whole sort of power structure of
Western civilization and that has
happened again and again and again
around the world is Western society can
adopt some of the plumage of diversity
while denying its FM and and when it
denies its essence it's you know we're
not just talking about disagreements
here we're talking about the
extermination of whole peoples and whole
cultures well communication research
it's not alone in this process but it's
a particularly effective and clever tool
for that is used by the the expansionist
forces in Western culture to insinuate
itself into other people's culture and
other people's business and just
substitute Western
capitalism for lack of a better word
Western commercial consumer type Society
for other people's forms of society
that's why I say that that fundamentally
speaking this is this is anti diversity
and then the last thing is is just
strictly in the training of journalists
you know I mean the the training of
journalists teaches people without
things though coming right out and think
so it teaches people to stand in line to
to report what the center says to bite
your tongue when it's time to bite one
and right now there are many issues that
we can look out as we talk to you
christopher Simpson in which the
mainstream press is in fact biting its
tongue and we can see for instance I'd
like your analysis maybe you haven't
followed closely I'm sure you haven't
missed it totally though you can see for
instance if you look at the US
government and Haiti just about every
aspect of what you describe is seen in
Haiti as a textbook case we have a
situation where a population elects a
president by two-thirds more than
two-thirds of the population in the
first free election in the history of
the country and yet in the US press
president darest aid is still considered
on stable untrustworthy he's been it's
been suggested that he's a pathological
and yet here's somebody who speaks
several languages has written a hundred
songs plays many different instruments
and is loved by his people yeah I think
there's at least three different
large-scale well there's more than that
that three of them really jump out at me
just looking at this morning's paper
tell us and well the first one is the
Haiti and I know that
Denis you've been you know really
working on that issue and looking into
it in some depth and so I believe that
to you to others d-daddy geez we what an
avalanche of real propaganda in a sort
of classical sense of that word do we
have about lead a front page of USA
Today this morning
these men saved the world save the world
and that Time magazine it's been on the
front page of the Washington Post for at
least a week all the prestige press all
the television and then write down I'm
here in Washington DC and you know like
many other cities we have little
neighborhood weekly papers d-day is the
top story in a in a neighborhood weekly
in Northwest Washington has the whole
front page okay now well so what about
that I mean is isn't fighting Hitler
heroic I mean isn't isn't sacrificing
one's life for one's country a and
honorable thing to do well yes it is and
the people made those sacrifices deserve
respect and deserve to be honored the
problem with what's going on now at
least this is in my personal opinion is
that this particular propaganda campaign
first presents a very distorted picture
of what took place in world war two
front page of USA Today says these men
save the world okay what were us losses
in World War two among its soldiers
something like three hundred thousand
people what were Soviet losses in World
War two among its soldiers measured in
the tens of millions who was it exactly
that broke Hitler's back I'm not
suggesting that d-day is irrelevant I'm
not saying that the what the people who
fought there are are bad and I'm not
saying that they should be ignored
because the second front the the
invasion of France was important in a
strictly military sense but I'm saying
it's a real distortion of reality to
claim that that it was the American
armed forces that that that made the
most difficult sacrifice in that
conflict and you know that's even come
up between the Americans and the British
Clinton was over there he was giving his
speeches as in England no he's giving
his speech about how the Americans beat
Hitler well the British didn't take very
kindly to this because the British along
with the French and the Canadians and
many other people actually sacrificed
considerably more than the Americans did
this is what I mean by propaganda it
creates this false picture of the world
in the way that particular picture plays
out I mean if you look at Eastern
European politics since the since world
war two you know this like all these
myths and powd in America oh well we we
gave away Eastern Europe to Stalin you
know we we consigned the poles to
slavery it's because Franklin Roosevelt
didn't have any spine and all this
baloney deep that those kind of ideas
only make any sense at all when they're
built upon this myth that the Americans
were the ones who really fought Hitler
and everybody else kind of helped us
which is mythological it simply isn't
true all right so anyway that's the
second big propaganda campaign the third
big propaganda campaign is is this a
showdown with North Korea that's going
on let's say that every single thing
that the Americans are accusing North
Korea of doing is true okay maybe it's
not true certainly hasn't been proved
but let's say for purposes of discussion
that every single thing they say is true
even in that case what North Korea is
doing
is not substantially different from what
Israel has done Taiwan Pakistan India
and other countries as well why is it
that you have Charles Krauthammer and
all these big pundits riding quite
openly on the op-ed pages of the
Washington Post saying that we should go
to war against Korea and yet you didn't
hear anybody talking about going to war
against Israel for their nuclear program
what bugs me about this I'm speaking
just personally now is the extent of
what's really unfolding in East Asia now
is a is a three or perhaps four sided
nuclear arms race involving Japan which
supposedly doesn't have a nuclear
program nuclear weapons program but
which in truth does North Korea which
claims it has a nuclear weapons program
but probably doesn't have much of one in
reality and South Korea that's what's
really going on but if we if we play
this thing as oh it's these insane North
Koreans they're you know just messing
everything up there they're undermining
stability and we should go to war to
teach them a lesson
you know it's just you said three
countries as thing it's the fourth one
China India Pakistan five and six well
South Africa you know in right along
what you're saying I have a question
about this apocrypha I mean just the
International Atomic Energy Agency or
whatever it is
do they come and inspect all the secret
parts of the US weapons program no no
what they look at is the civilian
programs and that the military program
in the United States is publicly
declared
so that there's no in a certain sense
the Americans can build you know a
nuclear arsenal of about 20 or 25,000
warheads and not violate the trees
because they say that they're doing it
do you follow me
there's been no subversion from the
civilian sector it's it's they're simply
military production reactors but it does
come back then to your analysis of
setting the tone so that if the United
States government builds twenty five
thousand weapons that's good because
it's really securing democracy in the
world and if South Korea mentions a
nuclear weapon but doesn't want to talk
much about it that's bad because South
Korea is bad
well I think North Korea in this
particular yeah well I think that's true
and see part of that is is itself built
upon a myth right and and that has to do
with the non-proliferation treaty what's
the non-proliferation treaty that they
keep waving at us in the newspapers well
it's an agreement it comes from the
1960s in which the countries that at the
time already had nuclear weapons said
they started worrying that you know many
other nations would get nuclear weapons
reasonable concern so they went to the
United Nations when they said look we'll
make a deal with you if you use the
non-nuclear nations do not pursue
nuclear weapons programs we will we
nuclear weapons States United States we
will work seriously towards eliminating
our nuclear arsenals we will do
something about this we will create a
world without nuclear weapons and then
therefore you
China India Pakistan you know the whole
list all the way to Ghana and so on
therefore you would not need nuclear
weapon and so the majority of countries
in the world agreed to this program and
set up a variety of inspection agencies
to to help implement it well think for
yourself how well has the half the
nuclear weapons States done in
quote-unquote eliminating nuclear
weapons number one up until Gorbachev's
breakthrough they not only have made no
progress they're quite the opposite the
the arms race had exploded multifold
even with the Gorbachev breakthrough you
don't hear serious talk in the United
States of eliminating the nuclear
arsenal they want to cut it back perhaps
not quite so expensive but as far as
furious motion towards the claimed goals
of the non-proliferation treaty you see
very little that's the voice of
Christopher Simpson the book of science
of coercion communication research in
psychological warfare in 1945 to 1960
put out by Oxford University Press we
only have a few seconds left
Christopher Simpson but I'd like you to
close perhaps by a a practical lesson
for our listeners and who I think are
very student pay attention to the media
and they're always looking for advice
and better ways to understand that which
they read and see in the electronic
media so maybe you can just give us a
30-second primer on how you read the
newspaper and look at television and
sort of like
how you sort of look at things and
detect the psychological warfare aspects
upon what you're seeing in here
experiencing well that's an awful tough
question especially in a 30-second time
frame okay I'm not sure I would have to
think about how to answer that I guess
the the most straightforward answer is
you have to look at this stuff
critically you have to look for the
subtext if you go out and pick up one
particular area of news that interests
you race relations the economy the
nuclear arms race it almost doesn't
matter which one it is look at that in
depth and really try to grasp it from
the inside and when you do that you'll
understand how the news becomes
distorted in that particular case and
then that in turn will give you kind of
a telescope or a tool for looking at
news presentations on other issues as
well oh I thought you were gonna say go
out and listen to a Pacific a radio and
KPFA flash points to really get an
alternative well okay fair enough fair
enough i if you wanted if you wanted a
plug I suppose I should have gone ahead
and given you know I listened to
Pacifica Radio and and I think the
Pacifica Radio provides a not just a
valuable but a genuinely essential
made essential community service and
look around is anybody else doing is
anybody else doing anything remotely
like what Pacifica does now Pacifica's
gone a number of wards okay that's true
enough but but I think that does do a
very valuable job and I think deserves
your support well we want to thank you
for spending this time with us
Christopher Simpson science of coercion
once again communication is research in
psychological warfare in 1945 to 1960
put out by Oxford University Press you
are also the author of splendid blond
beasts another great book and blowback I
recommend all of them and we'll be
talking to you again fine my pleasure